🌕 THE POEM

π by #~n
--------------

win oselo
wapowan pasa
lunetun pasa
juluwin pasan
jun



📚 THE SCHOLARLY ANALYSIS

The critic first observes—with a mix of awe and concern—
that every word in the poem contains at most three syllables,
a constraint both absurdly strict and oddly admirable.

The critic is stunned by the poet’s audacity:
to use nanpa-linja-n,
a system engineered for simplicty, functionality and clarity,
and it's original use of -n everywhere as a phonetic marker for ending strings of digits,
and then astonishingly succeeding in expressing the subject matter so accurately and eloquently.

Vogon poets, infamous for causing listeners’ internal organs
to liquefy out of sheer aesthetic offense,
at least attempt to create rhyme, this poem does not.

The critic would also like to note—purely out of gratitude—
that while there are more than 300 trillion known digits of π,
the poet has mercifully limited this work to a single verse.

Despite its extravagant precision,
the poem still shines with Toki Pona’s core values:
simplicity, functionality, and creativity.

With its simple yet overly accurate numeric description,
the poem oddly enhances Toki Pona’s WCAG 2.2 compliance,
though the critic remains disappointed by the poet’s neglect
of the time-consuming mystic art of patiently hand-crafting numeric descriptions,
even though not all digit sequences represent numeric values.

The poem is an accurate yet sterile description of a number.
While numbers may be a fundamental and necessary human concept,
should the poet really be allowed to use an arbitrary dialect
that carefully introduces new lexicon
to only describe strings of decimal digits accurately.
In a copy and paste world,
we can afterall just copy and send TWALLTTALLLAMMMMLLTAMMMLAMLLLW,
and pretend we where able to say it properly in the first place.

The critic is repulsed by these foreign logical ideas and the disregard for tradition.
And in fact, the critic—speaking with the full weight of tradition—would say, ne, that,
in the traditional system, the number should always be written in full as
“mute mute mute mute luka luka luka tu tu”.
Forms such as TWALLTTALLLAMMMMLLTAMMMLAMLLLW are not syntactically valid Toki Pona,
and “3.1415926536" is an internationaly accepted decimal notation
rather than traditional wording (although it did exist long before Toki Pona).
If we allowed “3.1415926536", we would also have to accept any other logical description of the number that respects syntax,
so the critic insists that we instead must ban all other numeric expressions
and restrict ourselves to always using the full traditional Toki Pona forms.

Yet neither the critic nor the poet can speak for the poem; the poem must speak for itself.

Despite its catastrophic rhyme structure,
its humble striving toward WCAG compliance,
and its proud alignment with the grand tradition of Vogon acoustic torture —
one must begrudgingly admit a final truth:

This poem would look unreasonably cool on a T-shirt.




